---
title: Power Query Celonis EMS connector
description: Provides basic information, prerequisites, and connection steps for Celonis EMS.
author: capono
ms.date: 1/8/2024 
ms.author: dougklo
---

# Celonis EMS

> [!NOTE]
> The following connector article is provided by Celonis, the owner of this connector and a member of the Microsoft Power Query Connector Certification Program. If you have questions regarding the content of this article or have changes you would like to see made to this article, visit the Celonis website and use the support channels there.

## Summary

| Item | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| Release State | General Availability |
| Products | Power BI (Semantic models) </br> Power BI (Dataflows)<br/>Fabric (Dataflow Gen2) |
| Authentication Types Supported | Organizational Account |
| Function Reference Documentation | [Web.Contents](/powerquery-m/web-contents) </br> [Parquet.Document](/power-query/connectors/parquet) </br> [Json.Document](/powerquery-m/json-document) </br> [Json.FromValue](/powerquery-m/json-fromvalue)|

## Prerequisites

Before you can sign in to [Celonis EMS](https://celon.is/EMS-Platform), you must have a Celonis EMS account (username/password).

## Capabilities Supported

* Import
* Navigate using full hierarchy

## Connect to Celonis EMS from Power Query Desktop

To make the connection, take the following steps:

1. Select **Get Data** from the **Home** ribbon in Power BI Desktop. Select **Celonis EMS** in the connector selection and then select **Connect**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/celonis-ems/get-data.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Get Data dialog showing the Celonis EMS connector selected.":::

1. The **Celonis EMS** dialog now appears, with an example URL. Enter your Celonis EMS Team URL and then select **OK**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/celonis-ems/set-url.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Celonis EMS dialog with the Celonis EMS URL entered.":::

1. Enter your **Application Key** or your **Personal API Key** generated in the Celonis EMS.

   :::image type="content" source="media/celonis-ems/authentication.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the authentication dialog where you enter your key for authentication.":::
  
1. Once you're done, select **Connect**.
  
1. Upon a successful connection, the **Navigator** opens with the list of packages available in the given EMS team. Select the **Knowledge Model Record** you want to import and then select **Load**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/celonis-ems/navigator.png" alt-text="Navigate to package.":::

## Limitations and issues

You should be aware of the following limitations and issues associated with accessing Celonis EMS 1 data (does not apply for Celonis OCPM):

* Celonis EMS has a built-in limit of 200-K rows and 20 columns returned per record.

* Only defined records can be imported. Autogenerated records are excluded here.
