---
title: Excel
description: Power Query Excel connector reference
author: cpopell

ms.service: powerquery
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 12/10/2019
ms.author: gepopell

LocalizationGroup: reference
---

# Excel
 
## Summary
 
Release State: General Availability

Products: Power BI Desktop, Power BI Service (Gateway for on-premise or .xls files), Dataflows in PowerBI.com (Gateway for on-premise or .xls files), Dataflows in PowerApps.com (Gateway for on-premise or .xls files), Excel

Authentication Types Supported: No authentication

>[!Note]
> Some capabilities may be present in one product but not others due to deployment schedules and host-specific capabilities.
 
## Prerequisites
In order to connect to a legacy workbook (such as .xls or .xlsb), the Access Database Engine 2010 OLEDB provider is required. To install this, go to the [download page](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=285987) and install the relevant (32 or 64 bit) version. If you don't have it installed, when connecting to legacy workbooks you'll see the following error:

```The 32-bit (or 64-bit) version of the Access Database Engine 2010 OLEDB provider may be required to read this type of file. To download the client software, visit the following site: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=285987.```
 
## Capabilities Supported
* Import

## Connect to an Excel workbook
To connect to an Excel workbook, select 'Excel' from the product specific data connector list.
 
## Troubleshooting

### Connecting to an online Excel workbook

If you want to connect to an Excel document hosted in Sharepoint, you can do so via the 'Web' connector in Power BI Desktop, Excel, and Dataflows, as well as the 'Excel' connector in Dataflows. To get the link to the file:

* Open the document in Excel Desktop
* Open the File menu, click the Info tab, and select Copy Path
* Copy the address into the "File Path or URL" field, and remove the "?web=1" from the end of the address.

### Legacy ACE Connector
**Error resolution**

Workbooks built in a legacy format (such as .xls and .xlsb) are accessed through the Access Database Engine OLEDB provider, and Power Query will display values as returned by this provider. This may cause a lack of fidelity in certain cases compared to what you would see in an equivalent xlsx (OpenXML based) file.

**Incorrect column typing returning nulls**

When Ace loads a sheet, it looks at the first 8 rows to try to guess the data types to use. If the first 8 rows of data are not inclusive of the following data (for example, numeric only in the first 8 rows versus text in the following rows), ACE will apply an incorrect type to that column and return nulls for any data that does not match the type.

### Missing or Incomplete Excel Data
Sometimes Power Query fails to extract all the data from an Excel Worksheet. This is often caused by the Worksheet having incorrect dimensions (for example, having dimensions of A1:C200 when the actual data occupies more than three columns or 200 rows). You can fix such incorrect dimensions by opening and re-saving the document. If the problematic Excel document is automatically generated by a tool, you will need to ensure the tool is fixed to output the dimensions correctly before the output can be imported into Power Query.

To view the dimensions of a Worksheet:

1.    Rename the xlsx file with a .zip extension
2.    Navigate into xl\worksheets
3.    Copy the xml file for the problematic sheet (for example, Sheet1.xml) out of the zip file to another location
4.    Inspect the first few lines of the file. If the file is small enough, simply open it in a text editor. If the file is too large to be opened in a text editor, run the following from a Command Prompt: more Sheet1.xml
5.    Look for a <dimension .../> tag (for example, <dimension ref="A1:C200" />).

If your file has a dimension attribute that points to a single cell (such as <dimension ref="A1" />), Power Query uses this to find the starting row and column of the data on the sheet.

However, if your file has a dimension attribute that points to multiple cells (such as <dimension ref="A1:AJ45000"/>), Power Query uses this range to find the starting row and column **as well as the ending row and column**. If this range does not contain all the data on the sheet, some of the data won't be loaded.

As mentioned above, incorrect dimensions can be fixed by re-saving the file in Excel or changing the tool that generated it to output either a proper ending point or just the starting cell.

### Sluggish or Slow Performance When Loading Excel Data

Slow loading of Excel data can also be caused by incorrect dimensions. However, in this case, the slowness is caused by the dimensions being much larger than they need to be, rather than being too small. Overly large dimensions will cause Power Query to read a much larger amount of data from the Workbook than is actually needed.

To fix this, you can refer to [Locate and reset the last cell on a worksheet](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/locate-and-reset-the-last-cell-on-a-worksheet-c9e468a8-0fc3-4f69-8038-b3c1d86e99e9) for detailed instructions.
